`discovery.linode` component (#5174)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/discovery.linode.md

### Debug metrics

`discovery.linode` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

## Example

```river
discovery.linode "example" {
    bearer_token = env("LINODE_TOKEN")
    port = 8876
}
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
	targets    = discovery.linode.example.targets
	forward_to = [prometheus.remote_write.demo.receiver]
}
prometheus.remote_write "demo" {
	endpoint {
		url = PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL
		basic_auth {
			username = USERNAME
			password = PASSWORD
		}
	}
}
```
Replace the following:
  - `PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL`: The URL of the Prometheus remote_write-compatible server to send metrics to.
  - `USERNAME`: The username to use for authentication to the remote_write API.
  - `PASSWORD`: The password to use for authentication to the remote_write API.

### Using private IP address:

```
discovery.linode "example" {
    bearer_token = env("LINODE_TOKEN")
    port = 8876
}
discovery.relabel "private_ips" {
	targets = discovery.linode.example.targets
	rule {
    	source_labels = ["__meta_linode_private_ipv4"]
    	replacement     = "[$1]:8876"
    	target_label  = "__address__"
  	}
}
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
	targets    = discovery.relabel.private_ips.targets

> 	forward_to = [...]

Reviewer: I think we typically build out the full example in this section although it may be redundant in this case

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/discovery.linode/
title: discovery.linode
---

# discovery.linode

> `discovery.linode` allows retrieving scrape targets from [Linode's](https://www.linode.com/) Linode APIv4.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`discovery.linode` allows you to retrieve scrape targets from [Linode's](https://www.linode.com/) Linode APIv4.
```

> This service discovery uses the public IPv4 address by default, by that can be changed with relabeling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This service discovery uses the public IPv4 address by default, but that can be changed with relabeling.
```

Not sure about this suggestion. It doesn't read correctly in the original text.

## Usage

```river
discovery.linode "LABEL" {
	bearer_token = LINODE_API_TOKEN
}
```

> Note: Linode APIv4 Token must be created with scopes: `linodes:read_only`, `ips:read_only`, and `events:read_only`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{% admonition type="note" %}}
The linode APIv4 Token must be created with the scopes: `linodes:read_only`, `ips:read_only`, and `events:read_only`.
{{% /admonition %}}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name               | Type           | Description                                                    | Default       | Required
------------------ | -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | --------
`refresh_interval` | `duration`     | The time to wait between polling update requests.              | `"60s"`       | no

> `port`    | `int`     | Port that metrics should be scraped from. | `80`    | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`port`    | `int`     | Port that metrics are scraped from. | `80`    | no
```

oauth2 > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the endpoint. | no

The `>` symbol indicates deeper levels of nesting. For example,
`oauth2 > tls_config` refers to a `tls_config` block defined inside
an `oauth2` block.

[authorization]: #authorization-block
[oauth2]: #oauth2-block
[tls_config]: #tls_config-block

### authorization block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/authorization-block.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT VERSION>" >}}

### oauth2 block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/oauth2-block.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT VERSION>" >}}

### tls_config block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/tls-config-block.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT VERSION>" >}}

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The set of targets discovered from the Linode API.

The following meta labels are available on targets and can be used by the
discovery.relabel component:

> * `__meta_linode_instance_id`: the id of the linode instance
> * `__meta_linode_instance_label`: the label of the linode instance
> * `__meta_linode_image`: the slug of the linode instance's image
> * `__meta_linode_private_ipv4`: the private IPv4 of the linode instance
> * `__meta_linode_public_ipv4`: the public IPv4 of the linode instance
> * `__meta_linode_public_ipv6`: the public IPv6 of the linode instance
> * `__meta_linode_region`: the region of the linode instance
> * `__meta_linode_type`: the type of the linode instance
> * `__meta_linode_status`: the status of the linode instance
> * `__meta_linode_tags`: a list of tags of the linode instance joined by the tag separator
> * `__meta_linode_group`: the display group a linode instance is a member of
> * `__meta_linode_hypervisor`: the virtualization software powering the linode instance
> * `__meta_linode_backups`: the backup service status of the linode instance
> * `__meta_linode_specs_disk_bytes`: the amount of storage space the linode instance has access to
> * `__meta_linode_specs_memory_bytes`: the amount of RAM the linode instance has access to
> * `__meta_linode_specs_vcpus`: the number of VCPUS this linode has access to
> * `__meta_linode_specs_transfer_bytes`: the amount of network transfer the linode instance is allotted each month
> * `__meta_linode_extra_ips`: a list of all extra IPv4 addresses assigned to the linode instance joined by the tag separator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `__meta_linode_instance_id`: the id of the Linode instance
* `__meta_linode_instance_label`: the label of the Linode instance
* `__meta_linode_image`: the slug of the Linode instance's image
* `__meta_linode_private_ipv4`: the private IPv4 of the Linode instance
* `__meta_linode_public_ipv4`: the public IPv4 of the Linode instance
* `__meta_linode_public_ipv6`: the public IPv6 of the Linode instance
* `__meta_linode_region`: the region of the Linode instance
* `__meta_linode_type`: the type of the Linode instance
* `__meta_linode_status`: the status of the Linode instance
* `__meta_linode_tags`: a list of tags of the Linode instance joined by the tag separator
* `__meta_linode_group`: the display group a Linode instance is a member of
* `__meta_linode_hypervisor`: the virtualization software powering the Linode instance
* `__meta_linode_backups`: the backup service status of the Linode instance
* `__meta_linode_specs_disk_bytes`: the amount of storage space the Linode instance has access to
* `__meta_linode_specs_memory_bytes`: the amount of RAM the Linode instance has access to
* `__meta_linode_specs_vcpus`: the number of VCPUS this Linode has access to
* `__meta_linode_specs_transfer_bytes`: the amount of network transfer the Linode instance is allotted each month
* `__meta_linode_extra_ips`: a list of all extra IPv4 addresses assigned to the Linode instance joined by the tag separator
```
